{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11100\viewh11200\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
Growth Chamber Log: 2014, 2015\
Common Garden Project\
\

\b \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Monday Jan 5, 2015\
\

\b0 New round of measurements taken. Doors opened and schedules changed around noon. Closed up around 2pm. Taking photos tomorrow. Work being done to solve the temperature gradient issue happening in there.\

\b \
\
Monday Dec 29, 2014\
\

\b0 Late evening came in to take new round of phenology measurements. Doors opened around 9pm. Schedules changed to working schedules. Then doors closed and left around 10pm. Lots of growth happening to the Case Estate clippings!\

\b \
\
Tuesday Dec 16, 2014\
\

\b0 Chamber doors were briefly opened around 11:00 a.m..  Measured heights of each of the 3 Hobo sensors in chambers, removed them, and downloaded data. Brief look at this data shows that lights are heating things up quite a bit. The top Hobos were running around ~10C higher than what chambers were set at. May need to contact Biochambers about this. More work to do throughout the day on chambers.\
\

\b \
Monday Dec 15, 2014\
\

\b0 Opened chambers in both morning and afternoon, a few times. Chambers were not opened while \'93night\'94 routines were running, however. Reviewed experiment workflow and methods with Dan, lots of notes & thoughts. Need: shelving and better earplugs!
\b \
\
\
Friday Dec 12, 2014\
\

\b0 Opened chambers at 10:00 a.m. Noticed that Betlen01 has young buds. Then re-opened chamber Larry several times between 11:00 \'96 12:00. Will be doing so quite a bit today in order to take photographs. Good amount of early growth happening. Started a new table to take notes on this growth in the Growth Chamber spreadsheet. Some other thoughts:\
\
- Need to come up with a means of labelling clippings within each flask. Otherwise there will be no way to tell which is which, and thus which buds are which etc.\
\
- Need to change the water every 3 days? According to Brian. \'93Any longer than that you will run into problems\'94\
\
- \

\b \
\
Tuesday Dec 9, 2014\
\

\b0 Chambers were opening around 11:00 a.m. to take a look at potential mounting mechanism for Hobos at various heights. \
\
Removed Hobos. Relabelled these sensors:\
- \'93Nick\'94 is now: Nick Control\
- Dec9 file for recent Nick data is \'93Larry (formerly Nick)_\'94\
- \'93Larry\'94 is now: Larry Light & Temp_control\
- Dec9 file for recent Nick data is \'93Nick (formerly Larry)\
\
So for 24hrs I am testing for light vs shade today. I have placed two new hobos in their boxes, in order to prevent direct light and subsequent heat on their surface. Next to them are the two original Hobos as controls. They were put in the chambers at 2:53 p.m. I think this will solve the inconsistency between day and night temperatures.\
\
\

\b Monday Dec 8, 2014
\b0 \
\
Opened chambers up at around 10:45 and then again at 11:20 a.m.. Re-downloaded Hobo sensor data, now have just about a week of 30-min data. 
\b \

\b0 \

\b Thursday Dec 4, 2014\
\

\b0 Opened chambers up at around 4:30-5:00 p.m. Downloaded this week\'92s 30-min data from the Hobo loggers and uploaded to dropbox. Also downloaded this week\'92s 2-sec data from chambers themselves. Using remote desktop to download files to our W-drive works well, this will be the protocol for going about chamber data extraction.\
\
\

\b Wednesday Dec 3, 2014\
\

\b0 Opened chambers around 2:00 to double check dimensions again. Looks like recommended shelving system from Biochambers will fit well. Planning to take out Hobos tomorrow for data retrieval, comparison to live reads from chambers.\
\

\b \
Tuesday Dec 2, 2014\
\

\b0 Checked on chambers (opening doors etc.) at roughly 12:30. Recorded which individuals were in each respective chamber. Processed information into an excel spreadsheet for maintaining info on where individuals are, what day they were entered, what schedules each chamber is on etc. Noticed that there are two FAGGRA04\'92s\'97this may have been a labeling error when Dan and I were placing individuals from refrigerator to cart last Monday. \
\
Things to order: a 5-gal bucket to keep handy for compost waste from fallen plant material; possibly a small stand on wheels for working on a laptop; printable sticky labels; shelving. \

\b \

\b0 \

\b Monday Dec 1, 2014\
\

\b0 Created this document as a repository for observations and goings-on involving our growth chambers. Clippings went into the chambers one week ago today. Appear to be doing well. Schedules are as follows: \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Chamber 1:\
Nick\
Short cool day\
Temp: 18 - 24\
Lights: 09:00 - 18:00 (9 hrs)\
\
Chamber 2:\
Larry\
Warm long day\
Temp: 20 - 26\
Lights: 08:00 - 20:00 (12 hrs)\
\
Chamber 3:\
Temp: 20 - 26\
Lights: 09:00 - 18:00 (9 hrs)\
\
Chamber 3:\
Temp: 18 - 24\
Lights: 08:00 - 20:00 (12 hrs)\
\
Currently Nick & Larry are the only chambers ON and with c lippings in them. \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Received HOBO light and temperature sensors today. Set them at 5 minute collection interval. The sensors were placed on top of 125ml flasks, about 8\'94 from the length-wise center of the chambers and in their approximate width-center. Both are facing \'93up,\'94 according to the Hobo directions. Made sure that the sensors were not directly under clippings to prevent any light from being blocked. All that said, the two sensors are essentially in the same position/orientation in both chambers. Both sensors were also named and Sharpie\'92d with their respective chamber names. Need to touch base with Dan and see how he likes that 5-min data interval. Maybe 15-min would be better.\
\
Will likely turn on the other two chambers asap and put in Hobos.\
\
Today noticed that VACANG01 was a bit low on water so went in and topped it off. Plummer/technician is/was here to fix the water outlet of each chamber in order to prevent future leaks/flooding.\
\
Side note, Dan and I calculated that each chamber can hold anywhere between 120 and 192 500ml Erlenmeyer flasks.\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
\
}