{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9160\viewh14980\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Bartlett Experimental Forest\ulnone :\
\
Bartlett Experimental data was downloaded from the Bartlett Experimental Forest page on the Fluxnet.ornlgove site, apparently Andrew Richardson\'92s page on the site. Link is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://fluxnet.ornl.gov/site/823"}}{\fldrslt here}}. The precise data file downloaded can found at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://daymet.ornl.gov/data/send/query?lat=44.06463967&lon=-71.28807685"}}{\fldrslt this}} link. Investigator\'92s listed are: A. Richardson (Harvard U); Scott Olinger (UNH); David Hollinger (USDA Forest Service).\
\
Lat/Long: 44.0646, -71.2881\
Elev: 279m\
\
This file contained daily average maximum and daily average minimum values. Thus maximum and minimum temperatures were calculated in Excel from these downloaded daily values, using the function AVERAGE. Data ranged from 1980 - 2007. This 2007 year limit looks like the oldest data of the four sites\'97all three other sites have data going up to 2014.\
\
\ul \
Harvard Forest\ulnone :\ul \
\
\ulnone Data from 2001-2014:\
\ul \
\ulnone Harvard Forest data was downloaded from the Harvard Forest weather station page on the Harvard Forest website, as referred to by Mark Vanscoy. Link for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://harvardforest.fas.harvard.edu/harvard-forest-weather-station"}}{\fldrslt page}} is here. More specifically, monthly metric data from 2001-2014 (from the Shaller Tower) was downloaded from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://harvardforest.fas.harvard.edu/data/p00/hf001/hf001-04-monthly-m.csv"}}{\fldrslt this link}}. Investigators listed on this tower are Mark Vanscoy and Emery Boose. This data conveniently has monthly min and max temp values, did not need calculation.\
\
Fisher Tower\
Lat/Long: 42.53311, -72.18968\
Elev: 338m\
\
Data prior to 2001:\
\
Harvard Forest maintained a different meteorological station before the Shaller Tower was established in 2001. This previous station was called the Shaler Meteorological Station, which was operated from 1964-2002. It\'92s information page is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://harvardforest.fas.harvard.edu:8080/exist/xquery/data.xq?id=hf000"}}{\fldrslt here}} and the respective data downloaded from it is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://harvardforest.fas.harvard.edu/data/p00/hf000/hf000-01-daily-m.csv"}}{\fldrslt here}}. Investigators listed are Emery Boose, Ernest Gould, and Brian Hall.\
\
Shaler Tower\
Lat/Long: 42.53, -72.19\
Elev: 330m\ul \
\
\ulnone Spreadsheet: \
Shaller Data: Jan-96 to Feb-01\
Fisher Data: Mar-01 to Dec-07\ul \
\
St. Hippolyte\ulnone :\ul \
\
\ulnone Data downloaded from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.webdepot.umontreal.ca/Enseignement/BIOL/Extranet/SBL/Territoire_et_Cartes/meteo/"}}{\fldrslt this}} University of Montreal page, as referred to by Eric (field site manager at St. Hip site). Data are divided into files per each year. Currently having trouble opening a few .DAT files from this page, will need to return to this.\
\
Lat/Long: 45\uc0\u730  59\'92 00\'94, 74\u730  00\'92 00\'94\
Elev: 366m\
\
\ul \
Second College Grant\ulnone :\
\
Data were received from Matt Ayres (former committee member/colleague of Lizzie\'92s). His file contained daily temperature min and max records (among other data) from 3 sites in the College Grant area from 1918 to 2014. Monthly average values were processed through Excel for records from 1996 - 2007. \
\
Need to record lat and long for this particular set.}